ADR Content

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Declaring Ownership of Datasets at
Block
ADR - #0085
Scope: Block
Document Status: ✅ Accepted as of Jun 4, 2025
Decision type: Unified (Pick one)
ADR DRI Cameron Hotchkies He, Him)
Sponsor: Mackenzie Shelley Diana Pojar
Authors: Cameron Hotchkies He, Him) , Tim Smith
DRI for Implementation: Cameron Hotchkies He, Him)
Last Updated: Jun 4, 2025
Related Docs:
additional ownership reading
Document Terminology
A few uncommon terms are used throughout the document, please see the Document
Glossary appendix to clear up ambiguity.
Context
Data is collected as a part of business1. Sometimes, the data Block relies on is inaccurate
or missing. Downstream systems are dependent on data availability / accuracy. When
accurate data is unavailable, it results in data outages, or even SEVs.
1 Among other things, data is used to make critical business and product decisions, assess risk,
and is also extensively utilized in our credit underwriting work.

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Data quality issues often arise due to no team being responsible for the quality of that
data. In addition, when a SEV occurs due to data quality the reliant systems have no
recourse.
For additional context, see the ownership appendix.
Tech Radar Changes
No changes to the tech radar are currently proposed
Blip Technology) Prior Status New Status Comment
Select One Select One
Decision
Datasets must have ownership declared at a channel level at every point2 after
collection/generation. Ownership must be the smallest set of people taking responsibility
for that data. Data platforms are obligated to support and collaboratively propagate
ownership3 metadata in all cases.
The following sections will expand on the concepts. At its core the expectations are:
● From the point of collection and/or generation, data has an attributable owning
group
● The size of the owning group is reasonable4
● Assumption/transfer5 of ownership is done with the explicit knowledge of the
previous owner
2 Data ownership points here are tied to the movement of data, with an emphasis on when data
moves from one medium to another, where ownership attribution is frequently dropped. There are
clear times when ownership might change in the same medium, so there must be a way to record
these virtual boundaries.
3 To understand how ownership will work in practice, see Expectations of Dataset Owners.
4 “Reasonableˮ is subjective, but ideally in the range of 3 <= x <= 20
5 In this sense, “transferˮ refers to data earlier in a pipeline having a different owner than later in a
pipeline. The change in team responsibilities should be obvious, and not require mutual
participation.

=== PAGE BREAK ===

In the event Channel Ownership cannot apply
Per-message (or Record level) ownership is an adequate stand-in6 for streaming systems
where content is required to be interlaced, as long as there is a mechanism to separate7
the interlaced stream at a later time.
Channel Ownership
Intermediate channels8 will have a clear set of owners identified. A set of owners would
be small enough to be a single team, or service-owner group, but ideally below 20
people.
In the above illustration, one team (Team X) is responsible for the Carrot and Turnip
services. They utilize a shared channel for communicating. In this example, Team X takes
ownership of the data channel, but permits Team Z to publish as a collaborator.
For subscribing, Team Y needs to get permission specifically from Team X. In the event
of an outage, or other concern, Team Y as a consumer relies on Team X as the first point
of contact.
6 per-message / record-level is usually harder and requires more overhead, which is why channel
level was considered good enough.
7 The authors would strongly suggest that any at-rest scenario de-interlace separately owned
content to avoid accidentally losing ownership information during a transformation.
8 Think “kafka topicˮ, “snowflake tableˮ or anything a service puts data into. See Intermediate
Channels

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Channel ownership with delegation
In the above illustration, one team (Team X) is still ultimately responsible for the shared
channel, and data content. In this example, Team X takes ownership of the data channel,
but permits Team Z to both publish as a collaborator, and function as an administrative
delegate.
For subscribing, Team Y can get permission from Team X, or from Team Z as they now
have the authority to make changes to the channel. In the event of a data outage, or other
concern, Team Y as a consumer still relies on Team X as the first point of contact.
Tracking Ownership
The Data Governance Foundations team9 will identify localized locations where teams
declared ownership of data, which will be mirrored in a centralized location10. By
onboarding teams as owners of data, teams are more likely to monitor, and ensure the
quality of data. In the event of an outage, there is a support mechanism for the affected
services.
9 Other teams are encouraged to collaborate in this process, but can defer the maintenance of a
central pane of glass to the DGF team.
10 At this point in time, it will by Acryl Datahub, but this ADR isnʼt tied to any specific vendor